what year do you think a kid should
start composing themselves as soon as
possible you think like a like a like a
baby should be like nope compose
yourself a 2-year-old compose yourself a
5-year-old compose yourself a 7-year-old
compose yourself a teenager compose
yourself like when is it that they're
supposed to they're morally obligated to
compose
themselves as soon as there's a theory
of mind really I it's it seems
psychotic it is
psychotic this coaching session is one
of my favorites it's where we
investigate how when we're constantly
being told to hold our lives together to
hold ourselves together it can have
devastating long-term consequences it
was filmed during one of our live q&as
where people can raise their hand and
have a coaching session with me I'm sure
if you pay attention you'll get a lot
out of
it I don't want to take respons
ibility and I want to know
why to responsibility for
what
everything I have so many opportunities
and I don't want to take any of them
okay so what's what's making you do it
I either think I should or would like
to deliver on it for my
husband like right now it feels like
you're taking responsibility for
something what is it that you're taking
responsibility for right
now that I need to take
responsibility boros boros of
responsible for not wanting to be
responsible right are you responsible
for making this thing that we're doing
right now
successful it feels like that yeah and
are you responsible and your husband's
not here just by the way and and are you
responsible for like making sure that
you maintain some sort of composure is
that also your
responsibility oh always okay okay yeah
so composure and you have to make this
thing work this is like this is the
recipe for a horrible coaching
[Laughter]
session so that you just did it you just
laughed like I got you you laughed and
then you're like nope composure no I'm
gonna do the composure
thing and that composure it's not just
external it's internal you're like
composing internally like you are like
you're like containing
yourself yes it hurts all the time all
the [__]
time yeah just to be clear this has
nothing to do with your
husband this is happening just like in
the simple interaction between
us
yeah oh like there's I saw you you just
popped out for a minute it was really
sweet what what's wrong with this thing
this this un the less composed part of
you like what's wrong with the thing
behind the mask of composure what what
what what what makes that not able to
run around be free and
happy I got yelled at all the time of
CH not being
composed and so I
learned yeah
[__]
them [__] those
people I'm afraid that's all
people yeah well it's you so it is all
people meaning like you're saying it to
yourself so of
course yeah do you have a
kid no no okay do do you know kids like
like you see kids you have nieces
nephews something like that
no no okay so what what year do you
think a kid should start composing
themselves as soon as
possible no but you think I know that's
what you've been told but like you think
like a like a like a baby should be like
nope compose yourself a 2-year-old
compose yourself a 5-year-old compose
yourself a seven-year-old compose
yourself a teenager compose yourself
like when is it that they're supposed to
they're morally obligated to compose
themselves as soon as there's a theory
of Mind really I
it's it seems
psychotic it is
psychotic you want I I'm GNA prove to
you it's psychotic I want you to think
of like a 5-year-old plane happily like
just visualize a 5-year-old plane
happily joyful in the
backyard collecting flowers making fairy
houses digging
holes do you have that
image Darkly
through lots
of yeah di Meo great and now I want you
to visualize that kid composing
themselves your head you literally went
like
this I am really
sorry that somebody told you that you
needed to compose
yourself that's [__] up
I hate
it yeah so I want you to tell me to
compose myself because I don't know if
you've noticed but I'm like totally not
that like I've sworn i'
like so tell me to compose
myself and keep your eyes open and look
at me when you do
it I don't want to
I know but just do
it eyes open look at me
yourself
okay that's what you're doing to
yourself all the time
just a little more room I just saw you
make a little more room for yourself do
you feel
that
yeah
yeah see what it's like that's like one
see what it's like to just play with
10 like make 10 times more room for
yourself just for a
second room for your face room for the
expression that actually want wants to
be
made oh my God you're you're G to get a
video of this you're like a different
person
like
yeah I've got one more
it's [__] a lot less
painful here's one for you too I want
you to what's your your husband's name
Alex Alex I want you to apologize to
Alex I'll be Alex I'll pretend I'm Al I
want you to apologize to me for all the
ways you've told me to compose
myself I'm sorry Alex that I asked you
to compose
yourself be
together there's not really any need for
it how's that
feel you're asking the wrong part of you
ask your heart how does that feel
so I want to I want to tell you
something about yourself that you might
not know as
you you can open your eye is it your
system is incredibly
sensitive and all and it was so
sensitive that you learned to lock it
down because it was so unsafe to have
that sensitive of a
system so you just like really learn to
lock it down but like your body
awareness is really it's
like you're very aware of what's
happening in your
body and so you have this like
incredibly sensitive system and so as
you open up just take its like you just
learned how to open it up and not be
composed just be gentle and take it
slowly because it's a lot you are really
going to be able to feel a lot it's an
Incredible Gift
but just take it slow in
it and I I interrupted you I interrupted
you how did it feel to apologize to your
husband empty in a nice way
yeah yeah that's what I there's that
awareness man you're
amazing
yeah yeah
you feel a
lot so I want you I want to teach you
one more thing it's not so we we we
finished the session and now I'm going
to just teach you something as you as
you as this starts to
unfold So Close Your Eyes for a minute
notice the sensations moving through
your body your job is just to notice
Sensations moving through your body
and notice like the pleasure and the
expansiveness that you feel in
this that is an important part of how
you need to spend some of your day as
you start
to um as you start to not compose
yourself as you start to allow your
sensitivity to feel everything that's
what's going to keep you grounded is
that that technique is to feel that
pleasure
I
know it's a
lot God
[Laughter]
damn what a pleasure